something
has spooked eva oh she's going in the
wrong direction
she might be giving us a slip
unfortunately
around the corner comes another mother
with
even bigger cubs
unbelievable unbelievable
just ye i mean amazing to see
looking at our female over there and
we've got another three polar bears
right here even closer
those are two healthy looking cubs
really nice looking cup
big chunky things or maybe it's just
that i'm a lot closer to them
i have been with the others just
incredible place this
suddenly we find ourselves surrounded
by polar bears another single
bear just there gosh
so we got eva with her two cubs
we got the female with the two cubs that
wasn't tagged
plus we got a young bear just behind us
here plus we've got the fat female over
on the ice that's eight bears around us
and this one is walking towards you
gordon
[Music]
we really have to keep our radar going
now so we got eight bears around us yeah
okay four of them are quite small cubs
but
this one okay i can't believe that jason
she's just
utterly unfazed
so she's definitely got the scent of
this young bear coming in here
and eva is coming around the back she's
a bit more skeptical
polar bear central jason
the density of polar bears here is
unbelievable but it just shows you how
easy it would be to slip up somewhere
like this you're concentrating on this
lovely scene of the mother and two cubs
behind you
and walking up over the ridge another
single bear just there he's another
mother
i'm getting the feeling that this isn't
a good situation
we've got 13 bears in this one area
which is incredible
this is potentially very dangerous
[Music]
i'd be more concerned of the young bear
who doesn't have cubs and a female of
the cubs
this one's
let the scooter run
[Music]
hmm good oh good fun another day in the
office gordon
incredible it is amazing to see
this many polar bears in one place
it may be a vision of the future as
temperatures in the arctic
rise and bears are forced to congregate
on the last of the sea ice
despite sharing the ice with so many
other bears
ava and our cubs are doing amazingly
well
for now they seem to be thriving
but on the way back our snowmobiles
attract
interest from a large male
okay yeah justin he's coming he's coming
he's coming he's coming
this is a big confident beer
this bear like every polar bear is
intrinsically curious he's walked
almost a whole kilometer straight
towards us
just to check us out
all other species of bear mostly eat
plants
and insects polar bears eat
meat and this one has his eye on me
yeah we this is getting to a point where
it's a little bit dodgy
this male is paying attention to us and
to us only
and he's not stopping he's getting
closer and closer look how close he is
right there so we're gonna have to get
ready to start the schedules and get out
of here
okay he's getting about what is he 10
meters
not good okay drive drive drive drive
drive
drive go go go go go
slight disaster it's here to pee
has too much attention we just had to
get out of it hang on
not good but that just shows you
[Music]
the animals that you can't entirely
trust
look at that unbelievable he got way too
close there
and even starting up the scooter is
something that would normally put a bear
off
hasn't bothered at all jason's just
going to see if he can scare him off
there you go there's a bear that was
thinking about food
and he saw us and we were on the menu
in april this male should be hunting on
the sea ice
but behind him there's mostly open water
it's no surprise that he meant business
and he's still there still watching
i am
that was about as close to a polar bear
as i want to get
at this time of year polar bears on
average
succeed only once in 20 hunts
if the hunter is skinny like this one
that
may not be often enough
all she can do is keep trying
[Music]
to prevent her scent betraying her she
makes a wide sweep
to get downwind of the seal
getting close
she's now right behind the seal
[Applause]
incredibly she caught the seal
underwater
[Applause]
it's only small but even so its blubber
alone
will contain a hundred thousand calories
enough to sustain this bear for a week
[Music]
and in that time she might even catch
another
[Music]
but this can't go on forever as summer
continues
temperatures are rising each hunt
requires more energy draining the bears
of their reserves
[Music]
they're all safely ashore but they could
still face months of hunger
finding food is not so easy on this cold
and barren coast
the search may be a long one
[Music]
polar bears have an extraordinarily
sensitive sense of smell
and she has caught a faint whiff of
something promising
it's the immense carcass of a bowhead
whale
a whale carcass could provide more than
any one family could eat
but they're not the first here to find
it
by any means
the smell has brought in bears some
miles away
[Music]
bear families seldom get on with one
another
she's taking a risk bringing her cubs
here
male bears can and do kill and eat
small cubs
another family challenges her
she must decide whether to compete for
food
or run away and go hungry
[Music]
she keeps her cubs close to her and
stands her ground
[Music]
their mother's courage has won the cubs
a meal
[Music]
there will be no easy meals on this
island
walruses are the largest seals in the
world they weigh
over a ton and are armed with tusks a
meter long
[Music]
exhausted from his swim the bear must
regain his strength
the next day a sea fog shrouds the
island
the wallaces sense that they're in
danger
using the fog as cover the bear
approaches the herd
the adults close ranks around their
young presenting a wall of blubber and
hide
he tests the banner but it stands firm
it appears that the world's largest land
carnivore
has met his match
there must be a in the armor
somewhere
[Music]
not here
this female walrus is shielding her pup
if he can just prise her off
[Music]
the bear's claws and teeth can't
penetrate her thick hide
[Music]
with the herd retreating to water the
bear must move quickly
having failed with one he heads straight
for another
[Music]
the chance of his first meal in months
is slipping away
[Music]
he seems increasingly desperate
it's now or never
he must avoid the stabbing tusks if he's
the wind
[Music]
the flailing walrus is immensely
powerful
and drags the bear away from the
shallows towards the safety of the herd
[Music]
it slips from his grasp
you